mycourses-assignment-calendar-feed.md, before:

---
title: Subscribing to an ICS Calendar Feed of Class Assignments in MyCourses
layout: default


---
###  D2L Brightspace

#### Overview
D2L Brightspace, a popular Learning Management System (LMS), allows students to manage their coursework, assignments, and class schedules. One useful feature is the ability to subscribe to an ICS calendar feed, which syncs your class assignments with your preferred calendar application (e.g., Google Calendar, Outlook). This guide will walk you through the steps to subscribe to your class assignments calendar in D2L Brightspace.

#### Steps to Subscribe

1. **Log in to D2L Brightspace:**
   - Open your web browser and navigate to your institution's D2L Brightspace portal.
   - Enter your username and password to log in.

2. **Access the Calendar Tool:**
   - Once logged in, look for the **Calendar** widget on your D2L Brightspace homepage. This may also be accessible from the navigation bar, usually labeled as **Calendar**.
   - Click on the **Calendar** link to open the calendar interface.

3. **Locate the ICS Feed:**
   - In the calendar view, find the **Settings** or **Options** menu. This may appear as a gear icon or be located under a dropdown menu labeled **Settings** or **Manage Subscriptions**.
   - Look for an option that says **Subscribe** or **Export** calendar. You should see an option to get the ICS calendar feed URL.
   - Click on the option to reveal the ICS feed URL.

4. **Copy the ICS Feed URL:**
   - A URL will be displayed, usually starting with `webcal://` or `https://`.
   - Copy this URL to your clipboard.

5. **Add the Calendar to Your Preferred Application:**
   - **Google Calendar:**
     1. Open Google Calendar in your web browser.
     2. In the left-hand panel, find **Other calendars** and click the **+** icon next to it.
     3. Select **From URL** in the dropdown menu.
     4. Paste the ICS URL you copied from D2L Brightspace.
     5. Click **Add calendar** to subscribe.
   
   - **Outlook (Web):**
     1. Open Outlook in your web browser.
     2. Go to the **Calendar** section.
     3. Click **Add calendar** in the toolbar.
     4. Select **Subscribe from web**.
     5. Paste the ICS URL and give the calendar a name.
     6. Click **Import** to subscribe.
   
   - **Apple Calendar:**
     1. Open the Calendar app on your Mac.
     2. Go to **File** > **New Calendar Subscription**.
     3. Paste the ICS URL into the **Calendar URL** field.
     4. Click **Subscribe** and customize the settings as needed.
     5. Click **OK** to add the calendar.

6. **Sync and View Your Assignments:**
   - The calendar will now sync with your application. You will be able to see all your class assignments and events from D2L Brightspace directly in your personal calendar.

#### Tips
- **Auto-Refresh:** Some calendar applications automatically refresh ICS feeds periodically, but you can often adjust this in the calendar settings to ensure your assignments are always up-to-date.
- **Multiple Courses:** If you’re enrolled in multiple courses, all the assignments should appear in the same ICS feed. If not, ensure you’ve selected the appropriate calendar in D2L Brightspace.

#### Troubleshooting
- **Missing Events:** If certain assignments or events are missing, try re-subscribing to the feed or checking the calendar settings in D2L Brightspace to ensure all relevant courses are included.
- **Sync Issues:** If your calendar application is not syncing properly, consider manually refreshing the calendar or adjusting the sync frequency in your app's settings.

This method ensures that you stay on top of your assignments by integrating them seamlessly into your daily schedule.

Commit message:

Corrections from ChatGPT
prompt: "can you make each heading one level more important, clarify in the overview that RIT's version of D2L Brightspace is called "MyCourses" and then use "MyCourses" in the remainder of the article?"

mycourses-assignment-calendar-feed.md, after:

---
title: Subscribing to an ICS Calendar Feed of Class Assignments in MyCourses
layout: default


---
### Subscribing to an ICS Calendar Feed of Class Assignments in MyCourses (D2L Brightspace)

## Overview
MyCourses, RIT’s version of the D2L Brightspace Learning Management System (LMS), allows students to manage their coursework, assignments, and class schedules. One useful feature is the ability to subscribe to an ICS calendar feed, which syncs your class assignments with your preferred calendar application (e.g., Google Calendar, Outlook). This guide will walk you through the steps to subscribe to your class assignments calendar in MyCourses.

## Steps to Subscribe

### 1. Log in to MyCourses:
   - Open your web browser and navigate to RIT’s MyCourses portal.
   - Enter your RIT username and password to log in.

### 2. Access the Calendar Tool:
   - Once logged in, look for the **Calendar** widget on your MyCourses homepage. This may also be accessible from the navigation bar, usually labeled as **Calendar**.
   - Click on the **Calendar** link to open the calendar interface.

### 3. Locate the ICS Feed:
   - In the calendar view, find the **Settings** or **Options** menu. This may appear as a gear icon or be located under a dropdown menu labeled **Settings** or **Manage Subscriptions**.
   - Look for an option that says **Subscribe** or **Export** calendar. You should see an option to get the ICS calendar feed URL.
   - Click on the option to reveal the ICS feed URL.

### 4. Copy the ICS Feed URL:
   - A URL will be displayed, usually starting with `webcal://` or `https://`.
   - Copy this URL to your clipboard.

### 5. Add the Calendar to Your Preferred Application:
   - **Google Calendar:**
     1. Open Google Calendar in your web browser.
     2. In the left-hand panel, find **Other calendars** and click the **+** icon next to it.
     3. Select **From URL** in the dropdown menu.
     4. Paste the ICS URL you copied from MyCourses.
     5. Click **Add calendar** to subscribe.
   
   - **Outlook (Web):**
     1. Open Outlook in your web browser.
     2. Go to the **Calendar** section.
     3. Click **Add calendar** in the toolbar.
     4. Select **Subscribe from web**.
     5. Paste the ICS URL and give the calendar a name.
     6. Click **Import** to subscribe.
   
   - **Apple Calendar:**
     1. Open the Calendar app on your Mac.
     2. Go to **File** > **New Calendar Subscription**.
     3. Paste the ICS URL into the **Calendar URL** field.
     4. Click **Subscribe** and customize the settings as needed.
     5. Click **OK** to add the calendar.

### 6. Sync and View Your Assignments:
   - The calendar will now sync with your application. You will be able to see all your class assignments and events from MyCourses directly in your personal calendar.

## Tips
- **Auto-Refresh:** Some calendar applications automatically refresh ICS feeds periodically, but you can often adjust this in the calendar settings to ensure your assignments are always up-to-date.
- **Multiple Courses:** If you’re enrolled in multiple courses, all the assignments should appear in the same ICS feed. If not, ensure you’ve selected the appropriate calendar in MyCourses.

## Troubleshooting
- **Missing Events:** If certain assignments or events are missing, try re-subscribing to the feed or checking the calendar settings in MyCourses to ensure all relevant courses are included.
- **Sync Issues:** If your calendar application is not syncing properly, consider manually refreshing the calendar or adjusting the sync frequency in your app's settings.

This method ensures that you stay on top of your assignments by integrating them seamlessly into your daily schedule.
