README.md, before:

[RIT Linux Wiki](https://wiki.ritlug.com)
============================================================

### [_wiki.ritlug.com_](https://wiki.ritlug.com)

[![License: CC BY-SA 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0)

A wiki supporting RIT students who use Linux.


## About

This repository is a collection of various information on how to access
university resources at RIT using Linux Operating Systems and Open Source
Software. This wiki has been modified from the 
[UNICEF Inventory](https://github.com/UNICEF/inventory) project.


## Development usage

use `bundle install` followed by `bundle exec jekyll serve` to serve the project locally for development.

## Legal

Licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0).
Not a lawyer?
This basically means you are free to:

* **Share**:
  Copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
* **Adapt**:
  Remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose, even commercially

Provided you meet the following terms:

* **Attribution**:
  You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made.
  You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
* **ShareAlike**:
  If you remix, transform, or build upon the material, you must distribute your contributions under the same license as the original.
* **No additional restrictions**:
  You may not apply legal terms or technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.

Commit message:

Add devel script to make local building easier
Signed-off-by: Sashanoraa <sasha@noraa.gay>

README.md, after:

[RIT Linux Wiki](https://wiki.ritlug.com)
============================================================

### [_wiki.ritlug.com_](https://wiki.ritlug.com)

[![License: CC BY-SA 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0)

A wiki supporting RIT students who use Linux.


## About

This repository is a collection of various information on how to access
university resources at RIT using Linux Operating Systems and Open Source
Software. This wiki has been modified from the 
[UNICEF Inventory](https://github.com/UNICEF/inventory) project.


## Development usage

Use `bundle install` followed by `bundle exec jekyll serve` to serve the project locally for development.
Or use the `./start_devel_env.sh` script if you have docker installed.

## Legal

Licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0).
Not a lawyer?
This basically means you are free to:

* **Share**:
  Copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
* **Adapt**:
  Remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose, even commercially

Provided you meet the following terms:

* **Attribution**:
  You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made.
  You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
* **ShareAlike**:
  If you remix, transform, or build upon the material, you must distribute your contributions under the same license as the original.
* **No additional restrictions**:
  You may not apply legal terms or technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.
